1.Introduction



2.Preservation of Evidence

Volatility of Evidence

The biggest mistake that is performed during incidents is shutting the host down. This is wrong for the following two main reasons:

A significant amount of important evidence is found in volatile spaces, meaning it is lost as soon as the device loses power
It immediately alerts the threat actor that we might be on to them, meaning they might start a more disruptive attack.

1. Registers and Cache
Volatile and hard to get.
2. Routing Table, ARP Cache, Process Table, Kernel Statistics and Memory
Capture information about the processes that were executing at the time of the incident.Capture information such as the routing and ARP tables. Routes and ARP entries have a 
specific time-to-live, meaning if we are unable to capture this data in time, we might not have the full picture of what network communication took place at the time the
incident occurred. These can be captured from the host itself.
3. Temporary File Systems
It is common for applications to create and use temporary files on hosts. For example, on a web server, active sessions are usually stored in temporary files. While these
files are often preserved longer on the host, we do not want to take any chances in losing these files that may be important for the investigation.
4. Disk
Take a snapshot of the host's drive.
5. Remote Logging and Monitoring
As discussed in the Logging for Accountability and Monitoring room, all hosts should forward their logs to a secure remote location. However, even these remote locations 
do not have an infinite log retention policy. Since, at this stage, we are unsure how far back the incident goes, we want to make sure that we preserve these remote logs 
as far back as possible while the investigation is still ongoing.
6. Physical Configuration and Network Topology
Understanding and preserving evidence, such as which subnet the host was connected to, will be important when we try to understand the scope of the incident and can 
point us in the direction of other hosts that should be scrutinised and investigated.
7. Archival Media
Last on the list is backups. While this information will usually not be volatile, it can be used as evidence to help us determine how far back the incident went when
comparing artefacts on the current disk to that found on backups. However, as these backups are usually not going anywhere, we have a bit more breathing room to focus on other,
more volatile sources first.

Don't trust the programs on the system.Don't run programs that modify the access times of files.

Answer:4,7,1,chain of custody

3.Alerting the Relevant Stakeholders

Incident Playbooks are good for blueteams to have a guide how to react in certain incidents.For example, if credentials were compromised through phishing, the phishing 
playbook would indicate that the team would, at that point, also start using the account compromise playbook

Call trees
Usually, there are multiple ways that you can alert the team that an incident is occurring. In large organisations, this process is usually fully automated using systems 
such as Jira, which allows you to log and then escalate a ticket based on the severity of the incident. Once a ticket is raised, the relevant stakeholders will be notified 
automatically.
Another common approach is to make use of a call tree. Call trees indicate who has to be informed and who is responsible for informing them. The structure also shows who 
can be escalated to in the event that a certain individual is not available to perform their responsibilities. Once the escalation reaches the required manager, they can, 
at that point, assist by using their own call tree to further escalate the issue as required based on the severity of the incident.

Answer:Playbook,Call Tree

4.Isolation of the Incident

Method of containments

Network Segmentation - The host is isolated from the network perspective by being placed into a different network segment. This isolation aims to ensure that the infection 
cannot spread to other hosts on the network. Effective network security is very important!
Physical Isolation - The host is collected and fully isolated from the network and users. For example, a user's workstation is confiscated. This isolation aims to ensure 
that no further actions can be performed on the host and evidence is preserved.
Virtual Isolation - The host is restricted from communicating through the use of software. For example, the EDR can be used to jail the host, meaning it is only allowed 
to communicate with specific entities on the network and perform certain actions. The goal of this isolation is similar to confiscating the host, but can be performed remotely.
Furthermore, in some cases, if the EDR is compromised, this may not work.

The Responsibility of the First Responder

As mentioned before, as the security engineer, you may not be responsible for isolating the incident. However, you will be relied upon as a subject matter expert to help the 
team understand what containment methods may be possible and to also understand what the impact would be of implementing these containment methods.

Answers:Virtual Isolations,Physical Isolation,Network Segmentation

5.Business Continuity

A BCP is a plan meant to help recover from an incident. It is important to note that as the main focus is on BCP, we should not perform this before containing the incident.

A BCP is very similar to a Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP). However, the DRP will mainly focus on the technical recovery of our division. A BCP is more encompassing and covers 
elements such as communication to internal and external stakeholders. A DRP is usually included in the BCP to help with the technical recovery.

Creating a BCP
Perform a Business Impact Analysis,Define the Potential Recovery Actions,Plan the BCP Team Structure,Test the BCP Plan 

BCP Metrics

Recovery Point Objective - The amount of data we are willing to accept can be lost. For example, if we say we are willing to lose an hour of data but no more, then our 
backups have to run every single hour.
Recovery Time Objective - The amount of time required to recover the hardware of our system
Work Recovery Time -The amount of time required to recover the software and data of our system
Maximum Tolerable Downtime -The maximum amount of downtime that we are willing to accept. We have to ensure that our RTO and WRT combined do not exceed this threshold
Mean Time Between Failures - How long our system will operate between incidents on average
Mean Time To Repair - How long it will take to recover our system on average

Answers:Business Continuity Plan,Disaster Recovery Plan,Recovery Time Objective,Mean Time to Repair

6.Documentation of Actions

Make sure you make Documentations on a lot of stuff because people cant remember everything,specially when its cryptic names and so on.

Documentation Templates

In order to assist with the documentation process, it is usually recommended that the BCP document also contain a documentation template that can be used. 
We do not want to waste time creating this during the incident, so preparing this template is important. The template should allow for the following information to be
provided:

Time at which the action was requested. Times should ideally be provided in a standard format such as UTC to ensure that times can be matched to other sources
Description of the update or action that was performed
Reasoning for performing the action
Individual approving the action being performed
Individual responsible for performing the action
Time at which the action was performed
Description of changes observed after the action was performed

Documentation is not only important to perform a successful handover, but also provides us with the ability to review the incident and actions taken at a later date. 
It is through this review process that we can investigate what went wrong and what can be done to ensure that it is prevented in the future. This process helps us reduce 
the number of incidents that we have.

Use Universal Time Coordinated (UTC) then you know which time it was that the incident happened or the documentation was done and you can understand it globally since
we have different time some.You could combine it with military time to safe some time writing when you or the people u work with are familiar with it.

Answer:UTC

7.Handing Over

Congrats! You have served your role as first responder and the blue team has fully taken over! We are not out of the woods yet, make sure to support the team as they work 
on closing the incident. The last step is to ensure that you perform an accurate handover. Ensure everything is documented and the team can start fighting the fire.

Let's practice what you have learned. Launch the static site and give being a first responder a go!

Click View Site and get through it for the flag.

Answers:THM{I.am.ready.to.become.a.first.responder}

8.Conclusion

Good summary of a first responder:

In this room, we have learned what it takes to become a first responder. To summarise:

Make sure that you preserve evidence and understand that some evidence may be more volatile.
Make sure that you understand how you should raise the alarm that an incident has occurred, whether through a ticket submission or a call tree.
Isolation is key to ensuring that the scope of the incident can be contained. However, there are many different methods that can be used for isolation.
BCP can be used to ensure that rapid changes can be made to help address the incident, but documentation is incredibly important to be able to retrace 
actions and get the environment back to business as usual as fast as possible.
