1.Introduction

Learning Objectives in the Intro of IR and IM are:

A basic understanding of incident response and incident management
Understanding the difference between response and management
Understanding the different roles during an incident
Understand the process of incident management
Understand the common issues that can occur during an incident and how to prevent these pitfalls

2.What is Incident Response and Managment

Mostly it starts at a SOC (Security Operations Centre) and they get some sort of monitoring for the events that are happening in an organisation.
If an event is looking suspcious or abnormal or unexpected then it get investigated by the analysts.The SOC is a filter.

A lot of events are not even considered an incident since they are blocked by intrusion prevention system as spam filter in example for emails.

When we find an event that is considered an incident then we have to answer following questions to get more informations.

we have quite several questions that still need answering:

Whose account was used?
Where did the logon occur from?
Where was that account being used before the logon?
Has there been any other potentially anomalous activity seen with that account?

If the severity is high enough then the Incident Response and managment kicks in to invesitgate the matter.Often it is just called Incident Response but the Response has
a different role then the Managment.

The Response team is more on the technical aspect.The main question is what happened.They check the information of the SOC and of the Endpoint Detection and Response(EDR)
or Antivirus Alter (AV),Network Tap Alert (Network taps provide alerts for unusal network activity.For example when a host in the network would start to be scanning other hosts,
SIEM(Security Information and Event Management).

One of the following investigations is to:

Recovering the hard disk from the infected host to investigate how the malware got on there in the first place.Imagine its like a big company in several countries then it is not
always an instant job that can be done easy.
Recovering the data from volatile memory (such as from the computer's RAM) from the infected host to investigate how the malware works.
Recovering system and network logs from several devices to uncover how the malware spread.

Then the evaluation how big the scope is.If we tell the scope is large the actions that could be taken would be on a big scale and interrupt the business.When we tell the scope
is small we could get a small response to it but maybe we misjugded it and it gonna harm the system further.The conclusion of that is that you have to be careful to evaluate
the scope.

In the Incident Managment our question is : how do we respond to what happened?

Once we understand the scope of the incident, the next question is how we will manage the incident. Incident Management has to take care of several things, such as:

Triaging the incident to accurately update the severity of the incident as new information becomes available and getting more stakeholders involved to help deal with the 
incident, such as Subject Matter Experts (SMEs).
Guiding the incident actions through the use of playbooks.
Deciding which containment, eradication, and recovery actions will be taken to deal with the incident.
Deciding the communication that will be sent internally and externally while the team deals with the incident.
Documenting the information about the incident, such as the actions taken and the effect that they had on dealing with the incident.
Closing the incident and taking the information to learn from the incident and improve future processes and procedures.

Effective incident response and management are required to deal with an incident. It is often mistaken that only technical skills are required to deal with incidents. 
The management aspect is just as important.

We will use an example in this case: A user has reported a phishing email

Level 1: SOC Incident
At level one, these are often not even classified as incidents. Usually, these require a purely technical approach. At this level,  upon investigation of our example, the 
analyst finds that it is an isolated event and therefore simply updates the mail filtering rules to block the sender. These levels of incidents can happen several times a day
and are usually quick to deal with and the analyst deals with this themselves.
However, in our example, a Computer Emergency Readiness Team (CERT) Incident may be invoked if the investigation found that several users received the email.

Level 2: CERT Incident

At level two, several analysts in the SOC may be involved in the investigation. A CERT Incident is one where we don't yet have enough to raise the alarm bells. Still, we are 
concerned and therefore performing additional investigation to determine the scope of the incident. Usually, the analyst would request assistance and more members of the SOC 
team would get involved. In our example, at this point, we would be investigating if any of those users interacted with the email. We would also like to better understand what
the email does.
If we were able to stop the incident before any of the users interacted with the email, we would usually stop at this level. However, if we discover that the email contains 
malware and that some of the users actually interacted with the email, we would invoke a Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT) incident.

Level 3: CSIRT Incident

At level three, the entire SOC is placed on high alert and actively working to resolve the incident. At this point, the entire SOC team will focus on the single incident to 
deal with it. Analysts and the forensic team work to uncover the full scope of the incident and the management team is taking action against the threat actor to contain the 
spread of the malware, eradicate it from hosts where it is discovered, and recover affected systems.
If the team is able to stop the spread of the attack before any disruptions can occur or the threat actor can escalate their privileges within the estate, the CSIRT team will
close the incident. However, if it is determined that the scope is larger through investigation, we would invoke a Crisis Management Team (CMT) Incident.

Level 4: CMT Incident

At level four, it is all hands on deck and officially a full-scale cyber crisis. The CMT would usually consist of several key business stakeholders such as the entire 
executive suite, members from the legal and communication teams, as well as other external parties, such as the regulator or police. Furthermore, at this level, we start to 
move into the territory of what is called "nuclear" actions. Rather than simple actions to contain, eradicate, and recover, this team can authorise the use of nuclear actions,
such as taking the entire organisation offline to limit the incident's damage.

Benefits of Incident Response and Management

Building a team and everything required for Incident Response and Incident Management is not cheap. It is also often difficult to tangibly explain to a business why this is 
needed. However, the cost of an incident can be so severe that an organisation can completely close their doors after one. This also isn't just a "big company" problem. To 
put it in perspective, according to the National CyberSecurity Alliance, roughly 60% of small companies that have suffered a cyber attack close their business after just six
months. The importance of good incident response and management cannot be overstated.

Answers:3,4,IM,IR

3.The Different Roles During an Incident

Many roles are required to perform effective Incident Response and Incident Management. The table below covers some of these roles that you should familiarise yourself with:

SOC Analyst
A SOC analyst is a person that deals with the various events and alerts that happen in the SOC. There are usually different levels of analysts. Ultimately, analysts are 
usually some of the first members that would get involved in dealing with an incident.

SOC Lead
The SOC lead, also called the SOC Manager or Head of SOC, is responsible for dividing the tasks in the SOC and deciding to escalate an alert to the level of incident. 
Usually, the SOC manager understands the technical information required to perform an investigation to better help them divide the different tasks during an incident.

Forensic Analyst
A forensic analyst is a person that performs an investigation to better understand what happened during an incident. This is often digital forensics that must be 
investigated by reviewing artefacts such as the memory or hard drive of a device.

Malware Analyst
A malware analyst is a forensic analyst who focuses on understanding how the malware works. These analysts often have significant technical capabilities to debug and 
decompile malware to understand how it works. These analysts often help to uncover Indicators of Compromise (IoCs) that are signatures of the malware that can be used to 
identify the malware in the environment.

Threat Hunter
A threat hunter is a person that actively tries to uncover new threats in the environment. The goal of threat hunting is to try and create new alert rules based on 
information available in logs and other sources. By performing threat hunting, an alert would be generated that could help the team discover an attacker that attempted to 
use the same technique.

First Responder
In certain cases, it isn't actually the SOC that is first alerted to an incident. Often, a cyber incident could have started as a business incident. For example, a product 
team discovers that their application has slowed down and isn't responding as it should. In these cases, that team becomes the First Responders to the incident. While they 
would not be expected to deal with the entire incident by themselves, there are some key steps that first responders should take to ensure that they don't compromise 
information that will be required to better understand the cyber incident.

Security Engineer
While security engineers are not directly involved with the SOC, they can often be involved in incidents. Security engineers are responsible for the security of their 
division, application, or system. In the event that there is an incident in their area, they will often be relied upon as a subject matter expert to aid in the investigation. 
Furthermore, security engineers will often work closely with the SOC to ensure that the SOC is receiving log information from their division.

Information Security Officer
Similar to a security engineer, an information security officer (ISO) is responsible for the security of their division. However, this is usually more management focussed 
than technical, such as security engineers. ISOs are also often involved in incidents as subject matter experts and responsible for acting as the bridge between the Incident 
Response team and their division team that will have to implement the actions provided by the Incident Manager.

Incident Manager
An incident manager is a person that was trained in performing the management duties for Incident Response and Management. Incident Managers have to be exceptional in 
note-taking and organised to ensure that everything during an incident is properly documented and that the processes are followed.

Project Owner
A product owner is usually the person that takes the lead during the development of a solution. In the past, with the waterfall method, products were only released after 
they were fully completed. However, today, using Agile processes, products are released and continuously updated. As such, since a version of the project is already live as 
the team is still performing development, incidents can already occur. In the event of an incident, the product owner is often called in as a subject matter expert to help 
with the investigation.

Subject Matter Expert
The blue team cannot be expected to be experts in every single technology or system. As such, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) are often relied upon based on the specific 
incident at hand. For example, if, in the incident, Active Directory has been compromised, one of the Domain Admins could be called in as an SME. SMEs are often relied on to
provide more information that allows the blue team to better understand the incident scope and what potential actions can be taken against the threat actors.

Crisis Manager
A crisis manager is the lead for the crisis management team. This is usually an executive such as the CIO or COO. This person is responsible for ensuring that the CMT 
functions as they should and can deal with the crisis.

Executive
In the event that an incident is sufficiently severe, executives of a company will be involved in the CMT. This includes the CEO, COO, CIO, CTO, and CISO.

Start the View Site and order the roles to the text.

Answer:THM{Roles.and.Responsibilities.of.IR.and.IM}

4.The Process if Incident Managment

Preparation

Preparation is key to effectively deal with an incident. During an incident, it is often stressful and every minute counts to ensure that the incident can be dealt with as 
fast as possible to reduce the amount of damage. In these stressful environments, it is often easy to forget things, which then could have severe consequences.

In order to prevent this, a team has to prepare to deal with an incident. The better the team is prepared, the less likely simple mistakes will be made during the incident.
In order to prepare, there are several things that the team can perform, such as:

Identify and document key stakeholders and call trees that will be used during an incident
Create and update playbooks that aid the team in following a set process for incidents with a known nature
Exercise the team's ability to deal with an incident through tabletop exercises and cyber war games
Continuously perform threat hunting to help create new alert rules based on modern attacker techniques

Detection and Analysis

Often organisations will split the detection and analysis phases into two. This is to introduce a middle step called triaging. As mentioned before, not all alerts will 
classify as an incident and even if an incident occur, there are different levels of incidents. The triage step is responsible for determining the severity of the incident. 
However, in the NIST framework, this is incorporated in this detection and analysis phase.

This is the primary phase for incident response, where we aim to answer the question of what has happened. During this phase, the blue team works to better understand the 
scope of the incident and provide this information to the incident manager. This can include actions such as the following:

Reviewing alerts in the AV, EDR, and SIEM dashboards
Performing a forensic investigation of artefacts both on systems and the network
Analysing malware that is discovered to better understand how it works and create new signatures that can be used to identify it

Containment, Eradication, and Recovery

Once the scope of the incident is better understood, the team will start with containment, eradication, and recovery. This is the primary phase of incident management, 
where we try to deal with the incident. Often organisations will split this phase into three different ones, each to deal with the following:

Containment - Actions taken to "stop the bleed". These are actions meant to stop the incident from growing larger.
Eradication - Actions taken to eradicate the threat actor from the estate.
Recovery - Actions taken to recover the environment allow the organisation to go back to Business as Usual (BAU).

The reason these are split into three phases is because their order matters. If you start eradication or recovery before containment, the threat actor will be able to persist.
For example, if the threat actor compromised Active Directory and we simply changed each account's password (eradication action), the threat actor could simply leverage their
current permissions to recover the credentials again. We would first have to ensure that we have closed-off access to the threat actor before taking other actions.

As you will note in the diagram, phases 2 and 3 are cyclic. This is because when we start to deal with the incident, we will not understand the full scope. However, we also 
simply can't wait to understand the full scope before we start to take any action. Therefore, as the investigation is ongoing, we already start to take some actions and note
the effect that they have on the incident. Only once we can return to BAU do we stop this process.

Post-Incident Activity

Once an incident has been closed, that isn't the end of the incident management process. As a last step, we want to evaluate what happened during the incident in order to 
learn lessons and improve how we deal with incidents in the future. As such, we learn from these incidents to better prepare ourselves to deal with the next one.

Answer:THM{Preparation.is.Key.for.Incident.Management}

5.Common Pitfalls During an Incident

Insufficient Hardening
Insufficient Hardening is something that happens even before the incident. Organisations often prioritise speed and profits over security. Therefore, sometimes security can 
be seen as a hindrance for the organisation. Once a solution has been deployed, the organisation simply moves on to the next one. However, in security engineering, there is 
an important step called Hardening. Once a solution is deployed, there may still be some configurations that did not adhere to security best practices but were performed to 
get the solution up and running faster. The hardening process reverses these configurations to bring them back in line with security best practices.
In the event that this step is skipped, the likelihood of incidents is increased. This pitfall therefore results in an increased amount of incidents and while most can be 
stopped before there is actual damage, it only takes one successful incident to be very costly for an organisation. As such, the hardening step should not be skipped. To 
make it easier, organisations have started to perform Hardening during the development rather than simply at the end. This is known as the Shift Left principle and was 
discussed in the Secure SDLC room.

Insufficient Logging
In order for the blue team to be alerted to incidents, they first have to receive the relevant information that can result in events and alerts. Often it is seen that 
organisations are not performing adequate logging of information. This can be seen as "flying blind" since the blue team would not be able to even know that an incident is 
occurring.
A common problem is the cost of ingesting log information. Often SIEM providers will charge clients based on the amount of throughput of data. This then results in 
organisations limiting the amount of logs that are being ingested. Furthermore, it is often costly to have remote devices, such as ATMs, send their log information over a 
mobile network. All of this can lead to reduced visibility for the blue team. Although some of this log information will be available on the device itself, retention is 
often reduced and in worse cases, a threat actor might have removed these local logs.In the event that there isn't sufficient logging, some incidents may only be detected 
later when there is already an impact. In other cases, it may not be possible to accurately determine the incident scope.

Insufficient- and Over-Alerting
Sometimes we receive the logs, but we are not doing anything useful with them. SIEM solutions often ingest incredible amounts of data that can make it feel like investigators
are looking for a needle in the haystack. This is why threat hunting is important. Threat hunting helps to identify information that can be converted into new alerts that 
would let the team know when there is something worth investigating.
However, the flip side can also be a problem. If an alert generates too much noise by having too many false positives, it can lead to the team ignoring the alert. This is 
similar to the "cry wolf" situation. In the event that an actual incident occurs raising an alert, the team could simply ignore it until there is a great impact. Threat 
hunting should therefore be careful not just to create new alerts, but to ensure that their signal-to-noise ratio is optimised.

Insufficient Determination of Incident Scope
A big mistake that often happens during incident response and management is not understanding the incident scope. While it is often impossible to fully understand the 
incident scope, best efforts should be made. In cases where the incident scope is underestimated, the actions taken against the threat actor would not be sufficient to 
eradicate them from the system. In cases where the incident scope is overestimated, drastic actions could be taken by the team that would result in unnecessary business 
disruptions.
Sadly, there isn't a quick fix for this problem. Continuous preparation for incidents is required to upskill the team and help address this issue.

Insufficient Accountability
Another problem during incidents is inaction. It is incredibly important to understand that there is a difference between discussing containment, eradication, and recovery 
actions and performing them. Often during incidents, actions will be discussed, but no one person will be made responsible for actually performing the action. This then often
leads to the incident growing as everyone thinks something has already been performed, when in fact, it hasn't.
Effective Incident Management and note-taking can help address this issue. The incident manager can document the actions that are taken and ensure that a responsible 
individual is nominated to not only perform the action, but provide the manager with feedback once the action has been taken.

Insufficient Backups
The last common pitfall during incidents is insufficient backups. In the event that an incident results in disruptive actions such as ransomware being deployed, the only 
saving grace is backups that can be used to recover the estate. However, if backup processes and policies were not clearly established and followed, it would not be possible
to recover from the incident.
Furthermore, sometimes backups are not sufficiently isolated. In modern times where the primary focus is on availability, often legacy backups are removed in favour of new 
High Availability Disaster Recovery environments. The issue with this however is that if ransomware executes on the main system, it is replicated as such in the DR 
environment. Therefore, offline and remote backups are just as important today.

Answer:THM{Avoiding.the.Common.IM.Mistakes}

6.Conclusion

Incidents are a part of life. Incidents will happen, and therefore we need to prepare to deal with them.
Not all events and alerts will lead to an incident. Even when there is an incident, we have different response levels that we can use to deal with the incident.
Incident response focuses on answering the question of what has happened during an incident. Incident management focuses on effectively taking actions to close off the 
incident.
There are many different roles and responsibilities during an incident. Even if you are not part of the blue team, you may be a first responder or may be called upon as a 
subject matter expert to help the blue team deal with an incident.
Most organisations have their own incident management framework, but most are based on the NIST incident management framework that covers the four phases of Preparation, 
Detection & Analyses, Containment, Eradication & Recovery, and Post Incident Analysis.
Several things can go wrong during an incident, and preparation can assist in reducing the impact that these pitfalls can have.
