1.Introduction

2.What is a Security Engineer

Summary of what a Security Engineer is.

Answer:Security Engineer

3.Core Responsibilities of a Security Engineer

Create policies how the organization is run.

This means that the security engineer takes steps to implement a Secure Network Architecture (room coming soon!), 
ensures the organization's Windows, Linux, and Active Directory are hardened, and software development follows the 
Secure Software Development Lifecycle.

Conduct regular security assessments, audits, and red-teaming and purple-teaming exercises to continuously 
improve the security posture. 

Answer:Asset inventory,Exceptions,secure by design

4.Continuous Improvement

Ensuring Awarness
In many companies people are unaware of the risks or get sloppy over time so its the job of the security engineer to
ensure that the people are well trained.

Managing Risk
Sometimes it is not possible to upgrade a piece of software to the neweset version because it breaks the operation
or the supplier or vendor have problems with it and so on.Then its the job of the security engineer to mitigate the possible 
security problem with other ideas like hardening the system or put a proxy in front of a system so its not exposed directyl to the 
internet or on other ways.This will reduce the threat of a security problem.

Vulnerability Managment
Keep track of the versions of software,keep track of new CVE,organazing patches of the systems and so on.

Compliance and Audits
Compliance standards such as PCI-DSS, HIPAA, SOC2, ISO27001, NIST-800-53, and more are maybe necessary depending on the 
industry where the organization is working in.
Working with internal and external auditors.

Answer:Humans,Change Managment

5.Additional Roles and Responsibilities

Managing Security Tooling
Keep track of the security tools like Firewalls,SIEMS,WAFs,EDRs and so on.

Tabletop Excercices
Excercise something in the organization like phising emails and so on.

Disaster Recovery and Crisis Management
Plan how to react and recover of incidents.

Answer:Tabletop exercises,Business Continuity

6.Walking in their Shoes

Answer:THM{S3CUR1TY_3NG1N33R5_R0CK}

7.Conclusion
