Day 1
Difficulty:Info

Join the Room and lets start.

1.Introduction no answer needed

2.The CIA Triad
The CIA Triad our keywords are Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability (CIA).

Confidentiality
This element is the protection of data from unauthorized access and misuse. 

Integrity
The CIA triad element of integrity is the condition where information is kept accurate and consistent unless authorized changes are made.

Availability
In order for data to be useful, it must be available and accessible by the user.

Answers: Integrity,Availability,Confidentiality

3.Principles of Privileges

Our keywords are Privileged Identity Management (PIM) and Privileged Access Management (or PAM for short).

PIM is used to translate a user's role within an organisation into an access role on a system. Whereas PAM is 
the management of the privileges a system's access role has, amongst other things.

Answers:Privileged Identity Management,Privileged Access Management,PAM,PIM

4.Security Models Continued

Our keywords are The Bell-La Padula Model and The Biba Model

The Bell-La Padula Model
This model uses the rule "no write down, no read up"(can't read up, can read down). Like in the military with Top Secret,Secret,Confidential. 
Someone with a Top Secret level can stuff of Secret and so on but someone with only level Confidential cant read Secret or Top Secret.

The Biba Model
can read up, can't read down , This model applies the rule to objects (data) and subjects (users) that can be summarised as "no write up, no read down". 
This rule means that subjects can create or write content to objects at or below their level but can only read the contents of objects above the subject's level.

In Organisations it can be mixed depending what is needed because in the Biba Model as example a high ranking officer couldnt read the instructions of his subordinates what 
could be a big problem.

Answers:The Bell-LaPadula Model,The Biba Model,The Bell-LaPadula Model,The Biba Model

5.Threat Modelling & Incident Response

Our keyword here is  STRIDE (Spoofing identity, Tampering with data, Repudiation threats, Information disclosure, Denial of Service and Elevation of privileges)

Spoofing:This principle requires you to authenticate requests and users accessing a system. Spoofing involves a malicious party falsely identifying itself as another.
         Access keys (such as API keys) or signatures via encryption helps remediate this threat.
Tampering:By providing anti-tampering measures to a system or application, you help provide integrity to the data. Data that is accessed must be kept integral and accurate.
          For example, shops use seals on food products.
Repudiation:This principle dictates the use of services such as logging of activity for a system or application to track.
Information Disclosure:Applications or services that handle information of multiple users need to be appropriately configured to only show information relevant to the owner.
Denial of Service:Applications and services use up system resources, these two things should have measures in place so that abuse of the application/service
                  won't result in bringing the whole system down.
Elevation of Privilege:This is the worst-case scenario for an application or service. It means that a user was able to escalate their authorization to that of 
                       a higher level i.e. an administrator. This scenario often leads to further exploitation or information disclosure.

Then the next are the six phases of Incident Response.

Preparation:Do we have the resources and plans in place to deal with the security incident?
Identification:Has the threat and the threat actor been correctly identified in order for us to respond to?
Containment:Can the threat/security incident be contained to prevent other systems or users from being impacted?
Eradication:Remove the active threat.
Recovery:Perform a full review of the impacted systems to return to business as usual operations.
aThe last one is probably one of the most important after the Incident has been solved.
Lesson Learned:What can be learnt from the incident? I.e. if it was due to a phishing email, employees should be trained better to detect phishing emails.

Answers:STRIDE,Incident Response,Tampering,Recovery
