1.Introduction

Learning Objective

What is SIEM, and how does it work?
Why is SIEM needed?
What is Network Visibility?
What are Log Sources, and how is log ingestion done?
What are the capabilities a SIEM provides?

Answer:Security Information and Event Management system

2.Network Visibility through SIEM

Host-Centric Log Sources

These are log sources that capture events that occurred within or related to the host. Some log sources that generate host-centric logs are Windows Event logs, Sysmon, Osquery, etc. Some examples of host-centric logs are:

A user accessing a file,A user attempting to authenticate.A process Execution Activity
A process adding/editing/deleting a registry key or value.
Powershell execution

Network-Centric Log Sources

Network-related logs are generated when the hosts communicate with each other or access the internet to visit a website. Some network-based protocols are SSH, VPN, HTTP/s, FTP, etc. Examples of such events are:

SSH connection
A file being accessed via FTP
Web traffic
A user accessing company's resources through VPN.
Network file sharing Activity

Answer:host-centric,network-centric

3.Log Sources and Log Ingestion

Windows Machine has the Event Viewer.In Linux it can be under:

/var/log/httpd : Contains HTTP Request  / Response and error logs.
/var/log/cron   : Events related to cron jobs are stored in this location.
/var/log/auth.log and /var/log/secure : Stores authentication related logs.
/var/log/kern : This file stores kernel related events.

All these logs provide a wealth of information and can help in identifying security issues. Each SIEM solution has its own way of ingesting the logs. Some common methods used 
by these SIEM solutions are explained below:

1) Agent / Forwarder: These SIEM solutions provide a lightweight tool called an agent (forwarder by Splunk) that gets installed in the Endpoint. It is configured to capture 
all the important logs and send them to the SIEM server.
2) Syslog: Syslog is a widely used protocol to collect data from various systems like web servers, databases, etc., are sent real-time data to the centralized destination.
3) Manual Upload: Some SIEM solutions, like Splunk, ELK, etc., allow users to ingest offline data for quick analysis. Once the data is ingested, it is normalized and made 
available for analysis.
4) Port-Forwarding: SIEM solutions can also be configured to listen on a certain port, and then the endpoints forward the data to the SIEM instance on the listening port.

Answer:/var/log/httpd

4.Why SIEM

SIEM is one major component of a Security Operations Center (SOC) ecosystem, as illustrated below. SIEM starts by collecting logs and examining if any event/flow has matched the condition set in the rule or crossed a certain threshold

Some of the common capabilities of SIEM are:

Correlation between events from different log sources.
Provide visibility on both Host-centric and Network-centric activities.
Allow analysts to investigate the latest threats and timely responses.
Hunt for threats that are not detected by the rules in place.

SOC Analysts utilize SIEM solutions in order to have better visibility of what is happening within the network. Some of their responsibilities include:

Monitoring and Investigating.
Identifying False positives.
Tuning Rules which are causing the noise or False positives.
Reporting and Compliance.
Identifying blind spots in the network visibility and covering them.

5.Analysing Logs and Alerts.

Each SIEM solution comes with some default dashboards and provides an option for custom Dashboard creation. Some of the information that can be found in a dashboard are:

Alert Highlights
System Notification
Health Alert
List of Failed Login Attempts
Events Ingested Count
Rules triggered
Top Domains Visited

Correlation Rules

Correlation rules play an important role in the timely detection of threats allowing analysts to take action on time. Correlation rules are pretty much logical expressions 
set to be triggered. A few examples of correlation rules are:

If a User gets 5 failed Login Attempts in 10 seconds - Raise an alert for Multiple Failed Login Attempts
If login is successful after multiple failed login attempts - Raise an alert for Successful Login After multiple Login Attempts
A rule is set to alert every time a user plugs in a USB (Useful if USB is restricted as per the company policy)
If outbound traffic is > 25 MB - Raise an alert to potential Data exfiltration Attempt (Usually, it depends on the company policy) 

Answer:104,False Alarm

6.Lab Work

Open the View Site and get through the example.

Answer:cudominer.exe,chris.fort,HR_02,miner,True-Positive,THM{000_SIEM_INTRO}

7.Conclusion

In this room, we have covered what SIEM is, its capabilities, and what visibility it provides. To learn in-depth about how Incidents are investigated, explore the following
rooms and challenges.

Jr. SOC Analyst
Splunk101
Splunk201
Benign
InvestigatingwithSplunk
InvestgatingwithELK
ItsyBitsy
