1.Introduction

By completing this room, you will know:

What containerisation is and what containers are and where and why containerisation is used?A fundamental understanding of the popular containerisation technology called 
Docker.What makes Docker so popular and how containerisation works.

2.What is Containerisation

Modern applications are often complex and usually depend on frameworks and libraries being installed on a device before the application can run. These dependencies can:

Be difficult to install depending on the environment the application is running (some operating systems might not even support them!)
Create difficulty for developers to diagnose and replicate faults, as it could be a problem with the application's environment - not the application itself!
Can often conflict with each other. For example, having multiple versions of Python to run different applications is a headache for the user, and an application may work 
with one version of Python and not another.

Containerisation platforms remove this headache by packaging the dependencies together and “isolating” the application’s environment.

The isolation offered by namespaces adds a benefit of security because it means that if an application in the container is compromised, usually 
(unless they share the same namespace), other containers are unaffected.

Alternatives such as virtual machines will require a whole operating system being installed to run the application (taking up large amounts of disk space and other 
computing resources such as CPU and RAM)

Answers:namespace,nay

3.Introducing Docker

Docker employs the same technology used in containerisation to isolate applications into containers called the Docker Engine. The Docker Engine is essentially an API 
that runs on the host operating system, which communicates between the operating system and containers to access the system’s hardware (such as CPU, RAM, networking and disk)

Because of this, the Docker engine is extensive and allows you to do things like:

Connect containers together (for example, a container running a web application and another container running a database)
Export and import applications (images),Transfer files between the operating system and container

Docker uses the programming syntax YAML to allow developers to instruct how a container should be built and what is run. This is a significant reason why Docker is so 
portable and easy to debug; share the instructions, and it will build and run the same on any device that supports the Docker Engine.

Answers:An Image,YAML

4.The History of Docker

Answer:2013,PyCon,V7

5.The Benefits & Features of Docker

Docker is free,effiecent,minimal,easy to share.

6.How does Containerisation Work?

Namespaces essentially segregate system resources such as processes, files and memory away from other namespaces.

Every process running on Linux will be assigned two things:

    A namespace
    A process identifier (PID)

look that command line on linux with ps aux or use htop if already installed

Answer:ps aux

7.Practical

Click View Site and complete it to get the flag.

Answer:THM{APPLICATION_SHIPPED}
