1.Introduction

It is recommended that you already finished the Linux Fundamentals to have a good understanding of linux commands.

2.Basic Docker Syntax

In this room, we are only going to cover the following options for docker images:
    pull (we have done this above!)
    ls (list images)
    rm (remove an image)
    build (we will come onto this in the “Building your First Container” task)

Docker Image ls
This command allows us to list all images stored on the local system

Docker Image rm
If we want to remove an image from the system, we can use docker image rm along with the name (or Image ID)

The last answer is with the tag after the : mostly used for different versions like docker pull ubuntu:22.04 or docker pull ubuntu:21.04 as example.

Answer:docker pull,docker image ls,docker pull tryhackme,docker pull tryhackme:1337

3.Running Your First Container

Syntax of the docker run is : docker run [OPTIONS] IMAGE_NAME [COMMAND] [ARGUMENTS...] 

An image named "helloworld"
"Interactively" by providing the -it switch in the [OPTIONS] command. This will allow us to interact with the container directly.
I am going to spawn a shell within the container by providing /bin/bash as the [COMMAND] part. This argument is where you will place what commands you want to 
run within the container (such as a file, application or shell!)

docker run -it helloworld /bin/bash

-it	This argument has two parts. The "i" means run interactively, and "t" tells Docker to run a shell within the container. We would use this option if we wish to
interact with the container directly once it runs.

-p is for binding ports, --name is to name the container in something easy to read.
If u want to read more about all the options you can find them here : https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/

docker ps lists running containers,docker ps -a lists running and stopped containers (good for start,stop command if u forgot the name of a stopped or exited container)

Answer:docker run -it,docker run -d,docker run -p 80:80,docker ps,docker ps -a

4.Intro to Dockerfiles
5.Intro to Docker Compose
6.Intro to Docker Socket
7.Practical
