1.Introduction

A computer network is a group of computers and devices connected with each other.Network security consists of different hardware and software solutions to achieve the set 
security goals. Hardware solutions refer to the devices you set up in your network to protect your network security. They are hardware, so you can literally hold them. 
A hardware appliance might look something like the image below.

Examples of hardware appliances include:

Firewall appliance: The firewall allows and blocks connections based on a predefined set of rules. It restricts what can enter and what can leave a network.
Intrusion Detection System (IDS) appliance: An IDS detects system and network intrusions and intrusion attempts. It tries to detect attackers’ attempts to break into your 
network.
Intrusion Prevention System (IPS) appliance: An IPS blocks detected intrusions and intrusion attempts. It aims to prevent attackers from breaking into your network.
Virtual Private Network (VPN) concentrator appliance: A VPN ensures that the network traffic cannot be read nor altered by a third party. It protects the confidentiality 
(secrecy) and integrity of the sent data.

On the other hand, we have software security solutions like Antivirus or Host Firewalls.

Answer:Host Firewall

2.Methodology

Breaking into a target network usually includes a number of steps. According to Lockheed Martin, the Cyber Kill Chain has seven steps:

Recon: Recon, short for reconnaissance, refers to the step where the attacker tries to learn as much as possible about the target. Information such as the types of servers, 
operating system, IP addresses, names of users, and email addresses, can help the attack’s success.
Weaponization: This step refers to preparing a file with a malicious component, for example, to provide the attacker with remote access.
Delivery: Delivery means delivering the “weaponized” file to the target via any feasible method, such as email or USB flash memory.
Exploitation: When the user opens the malicious file, their system executes the malicious component.
Installation: The previous step should install the malware on the target system.
Command & Control (C2): The successful installation of the malware provides the attacker with a command and control ability over the target system.
Actions on Objectives: After gaining control over one target system, the attacker has achieved their objectives. One example objective is Data Exfiltration 
(stealing target’s data).

Answer:Recon

3.Practical Example of Network Security

Follow the instructions.

Let’s summarize what we have done in this task to get root access on the target system of IP address MACHINE_IP:

We used nmap to learn about the running services.
We connected to the FTP server to learn more about its configuration.
We discovered a file containing the root password mistakenly copied to a public folder.
We used the password we found, allowing us to log in successfully.
We gained access to all the users’ files.

Answers:ABC789xyz123,THM{FTP_SERVER_OWNED},THM{LIBRARIAN_ACCOUNT_COMPROMISED}
